Newsletters: add 286 (2024-01-24) (#1479)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2024-01-24-newsletter.md

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #286'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2024/01/24/
name: 2024-01-24-newsletter
slug: 2024-01-24-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter FIXME

## News

- **Disclosure of fixed consensus failure in btcd:** "Niklas Gögge

>   used Delving Bitcoin to [announce][gogge btcd] a consensus failure in

Reviewer: Not a fan of "used Delving Bitcoin to announce", how about:
```suggestion
  [announced][gogge btcd] on Delving Bitcoin a consensus failure in
```

  older versions of btcd that he had previously [responsibly
  disclosed][topic responsible disclosures].  Relative time locks were
  added to Bitcoin in a soft fork by adding consensus-enforced meaning
  to transaction input sequence numbers.  To ensure any presigned
  transactions created before the fork would not be made invalid, the
  relative time locks only apply to transactions with version numbers 2

>   and higher, allowing transactions with the orginal default of version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  and higher, allowing transactions with the original default of version
```

>   1 to remain valid with any inputs.  However, in the original Bitcoin
>   protocol, version numbers are signed integers, meaning negative

Reviewer: I think it's incorrect to say that version numbers are signed integers in the Bitcoin protocol. They are first and foremost a fixed-length byte sequence, and the only time they impact consensus they're treated as unsigned integers, so it's more a matter of how they're handled in the code.
```suggestion
  1 to remain valid with any inputs.  However, both Bitcoin Core and
  btcd treat version numbers as signed integers, meaning negative
```

  versions are possible.  The _reference implementation_ section of

>   [BIP68][] (but not the descriptive text) notes that "version 2 and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  [BIP68][] (but not the specification section) notes that "version 2 and
```

  higher" is meant to apply to the version number cast from a signed
  integer into an unsigned integer, ensuring that the rules apply to any

>   transaction that isn't version 1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  transaction that isn't version 0 or 1.
```

    Gögge discovered that btcd did not implement this conversion from
    signed to unsigned integers, so it was possible to construct a
    transaction with a negative version number which Bitcoin Core would
    require follow the BIP68 rules but btcd would not.  In that case,
    one node could reject the transaction (and any block that contained
    it) and the other node could accept it (and its block), leading to a

>     chainsplit.  An attacker could use this to trick the operator of a

Reviewer: Per the style guide:
```suggestion
    chain split.  An attacker could use this to trick the operator of a
```

    btcd node (or software connected to a btcd node) into accepting
    invalid bitcoins.

    The bug was privately disclosed to the btcd maintainers who fixed it

>     in the recent v0.24.0 release.  Anyone using btcd for consenus

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    in the recent v0.24.0 release.  Anyone using btcd for consensus
```

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #286'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2024/01/24/
name: 2024-01-24-newsletter
slug: 2024-01-24-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter FIXME

## News

- **Disclosure of fixed consensus failure in btcd:** "Niklas Gögge
  used Delving Bitcoin to [announce][gogge btcd] a consensus failure in
  older versions of btcd that he had previously [responsibly
  disclosed][topic responsible disclosures].  Relative time locks were
  added to Bitcoin in a soft fork by adding consensus-enforced meaning
  to transaction input sequence numbers.  To ensure any presigned
  transactions created before the fork would not be made invalid, the
  relative time locks only apply to transactions with version numbers 2
  and higher, allowing transactions with the original default of version
  1 to remain valid with any inputs.  However, in the original Bitcoin
  software, version numbers are signed integers, meaning negative
  versions are possible.  The _reference implementation_ section of
  [BIP68][] notes that "version 2 and

>   higher" is meant to apply to the version number cast from a signed
>   integer into an unsigned integer, ensuring that the rules apply to any

Reviewer 2: The word "cast" here refers to a fairly low-level programming concept that (I think) only applies to languages like C, C++, and java. The term does express the desired concept perfectly, but maybe for the benefit of readers less familiar with programming:
```suggestion
  higher" is meant to apply to the version number cast from a signed
  integer into an unsigned integer (for example, -2, or `0xfffffffe`, is interpreted as a very large number), ensuring that the rules apply to any
```

Author: Good idea on providing more ideas.  I didn't like inserting a parenthetical here (breaks up the sentence flow too much), so I used a link to Wikipedia instead.

  transaction that isn't version 0 or 1.

>     Gögge discovered that btcd did not implement this conversion from

Reviewer 2: not sure but maybe here and elsewhere:
```suggestion
    Gögge discovered that `btcd` did not implement this conversion from
```

Reviewer: btcd is the name of the software, so backticks definitely aren't appropriate.

    signed to unsigned integers, so it was possible to construct a
    transaction with a negative version number which Bitcoin Core would

>     require follow the BIP68 rules but btcd would not.  In that case,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    require to follow the BIP68 rules but btcd would not.  In that case,
```

    of any code that might be used to validate BIP68 relative locktimes
    are urged to check the code for the same flaw.

- **Proposed changes to LN for v3 relay and ephemeral anchors:** Bastien
  Teinturier [posted][teinturier v3] to Delving Bitcoin to describe the
  changes he thinks should be made to the LN specification to make
  effective use of [v3 transaction relay][topic v3 transaction relay]
  and [ephemeral anchors][topic ephemeral anchors].  The changes appear
  simple:

  - *Anchor swap:* the commitment transaction's two current [anchor outputs][topic
    anchor outputs] used to guarantee the ability to [CPFP fee bump][topic cpfp]
    under the [CPFP carve out][topic cpfp carve out] policy are removed
    and one ephemeral anchor is added in their place.

  - *Reducing delays:* the extra 1-block delays on the commitment transaction are removed.
    They were added to ensure CPFP carve out would always work but are
    not necessary under the v3 relay policy.

  - *Trimming redirect:* instead of spending the value of all [trimmed HTLCs][topic trimmed
    htlc] to fees in the commitment transaction, the combined value is

>     added to the value of the anchor output, ensuring the extra fees are

Reviewer 3: Maybe specify that its an ephemeral anchor output? (if I have it right)

    they've been widely deployed and all LN implementations have
    upgraded to using them, the temporary special rules can be dropped.

  - *Request for max child size:* the draft proposal for v3 relay sets
    the size of an unconfirmed transaction's child to 1,000 vbytes.  The
    larger this size, the more an honest user will need to pay to
    overcome a [transaction pin][topic transaction pinning] (see
    [Newsletter #283][news283 v3pin]).  The smaller the size, the fewer
    inputs an honest user can use to contribute fees.

- **New documentation repository:** Anthony Towns [posted][towns binana]
  to the Bitcoin-Dev mailing list to announce a new repository for
  protocol specifications, _Bitcoin Inquisition Numbers And Names
  Authority_ ([BINANA][binana repo]).  Four specifications are available
  in the repository at the time of writing:

    - [BIN24-1][] `OP_CAT` by Ethan Heilman and Armin Sabouri.  See
      the description of their soft fork proposal in [Newsletter
      #274][news274 cat].

    - [BIN24-2][] Heretical Deployments by Anthony Towns, describing the
      use of [Bitcoin Inquisition][bitcoin inquisition repo] for

>       proposed soft forks and other changes on the default signet.  See

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      proposed soft forks and other changes on the default [signet][topic signet].  See
```

      week's newsletter][news285 lnhance] for Black's proposal to
      include this opcode as part of the LNHANCE soft fork bundle.

    - [BIN24-4][] `OP_INTERNALKEY` by Brandon Black, specifying an
      opcode for retrieving the taproot internal key from the script
      interpreter.  This was also described in last week's newsletter as
      part of the LNHANCE soft fork bundle.

  Bitcoin Optech has added the BINANA repository to the list of
  documentation sources we monitor for updates, which also includes
  BIPs, BOLTs, and BLIPs.  Future updates may be found in the section
  for _notable code and documentation changes_.

## Changes to services and client software

*In this monthly feature, we highlight interesting updates to Bitcoin
wallets and services.*

- **Envoy 1.5 released:**
  [Envoy 1.5][] adds support for [taproot][topic taproot] sending and receiving and
  changes the way [uneconomical outputs][topic uneconomical outputs] are
  handled in addition to bugfixes and [other updates][envoy blog].

- **Liana v4.0 released:**
  [Liana v4.0][] was [released][liana blog] and includes support for [RBF fee

>   bumping][topic rbf], transaction cancelling using RBF, automatic [coin

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  bumping][topic rbf], transaction canceling using RBF, automatic [coin
```
(American English spelling; "cancelling" is British English, so I'm not sure)
So far in the newsletters, we have 4 occurrences of "canceling" and zero of "cancelling".

    added to the value of the anchor output, ensuring the extra fees are
    used to guarantee confirmation of both the commitment and the ephemeral anchor
    (see [last week's newsletter][news285 mev] for discussion).

  - *Other changes:* some other minor changes and simplifications are made.

  The subsequent discussion examined several interesting consequences of
  the proposed changes, including:

  - *Reduced UTXO requirements:* ensuring the correct channel state goes onchain becomes easier
    thanks to the removal of the extra 1-block delay.  If a faulty party
    broadcasts a revoked commitment transaction, the other party can use
    their main output from that commitment to CPFP fee bump that revoked
    commitment.  They don't need to keep a separate confirmed UTXO for
    that purpose.  For this to be safe, the party must keep a sufficient
    reserve balance, as the 1% minimum specified in [BOLT2][] may not be
    enough to cover fees.  For a non-forwarding node that keeps a
    sufficient reserve, the only time they need a separate UTXO for
    security reasons is when they want to accept an incoming payment.

>   - *Circular dependencies:* v3 relay depends on [cluster mempool][topic

Reviewer 4: v3 doesn't depend on cluster mempool?

Reviewer 4: To elaborate, there isn't a circular dependency problem. The "imbue v3 logic on commitment transactions" idea was proposed by @TheBlueMatt in the LN spec meeting because he thinks it might take longer for LN to switch commitment transaction formats than for Bitcoin Core to merge cluster mempool, and LN development shouldn't block Bitcoin Core development.

>   - *Circular dependencies:* v3 relay depends on [cluster mempool][topic
>     cluster mempool], cluster mempool depends on CPFP carve out being
>     removed, but carve out can't be removed until LN users switch to v3
>     relay.  Gregory Sanders [proposes][sanders transition] an
>     intermediate stage with temporary special treatment of transactions
>     that look like current anchors-style LN commitment transactions,
>     allowing Bitcoin Core to deploy cluster mempool and v3.  When
>     they've been widely deployed and all LN implementations have
>     upgraded to using them, the temporary special rules can be dropped.

Reviewer 4: (Apologies for the late review) proposed new wording:

```suggestion
  - *Imbued v3 logic:* In response to concerns voiced in the LN spec meeting that it may
    take a long time for LN to design, implement, and deploy these changes,
    Gregory Sanders [proposed][sanders transition] an
    intermediate stage with temporary special treatment of transactions
    that look like current anchors-style LN commitment transactions,
    allowing Bitcoin Core to deploy cluster mempool without being blocked by LN development.  When
    they've been widely deployed and all LN implementations have
    upgraded to using v3, the temporary special rules can be dropped.
```

Author: @glozow thanks for catching this error and providing the rewording!

(For anyone who's curious, I made a bad inference from this sentence by Greg: "We need to roll out **updates to mempool/relay** to make the transition to v3 style transactions safe, so LN implementations can adopt it" (emphasis added).  I inferred the "updates to mempool" meant cluster mempool.  I'm guessing now that what he really meant was more in the line of package relay / package rbf.)

Reviewer 4: Understandable. It's my bad I should have reviewed earlier. Thanks @bitschmidty for being flexible and making last-minute changes!
